let's turn now to the Israel Gaza war
and in the latest development the
biggest Coalition airdrop of Aid since
the War Began is taking place to Mark
the end of Ramadan speaking in the past
hour the British foreign secretary Lord
Cameron said thousands of people in
desperate need would benefit meanwhile
Hamas says Israel's threat to attack the
city of Rafa in southern Gaza raises
questions about the purpose of any
further talks on a ceasefire in exchange
for the release of Israeli hostages uh
let's get the latest now from our chief
International correspondent Lee duet uh
lease bring us right up to
date yes the long Muslim month of
fasting has ended this evening at dusk
and Begins the very special time of the
Islamic Eid Festival the most important
days of the Islamic calendar A Time
usually of me seeing family and friends
of eating together praying together but
sadly in the midst of the Gaza war is
particularly in Gaza where most of the
population is now living with acute
hunger there's not much to celebrate and
so to lift Spirits as we've been
reporting the biggest airdrop since the
start of the Gaza War has been carried
out 14 air drops nine Nations the whole
operation led by Jordan and perhaps to
try to lift the spirits of children this
a drop includes sweets and toys one of
the countries taking part is Britain and
the Royal Air Force and our diplomatic
correspondent James landale is on an RAF
plane this is the biggest Aid drop yet
nine Nations 14 aircraft and is been
organized to Mark the end of Ramadan and
that means that some of the aid that's
been delivered today it's not just food
and water it's also toys it's also
clothes now here in this RAF aircraft
we've got 12 of these
containers and they they contain food
water we're talking things like rice
flour sugar uh baby powders tea bags
cooking oil everything that's needed
just to survive now each of these
containers there about a ton plus or
minus and there are 12 of them here in
the hold now it might look a lot here
but actually that's less than one truck
Crossing The Bard
by land so this is clearly not enough
now people say no it's it it will make
an impact it's better than nothing and
cumulatively because these air drops
have been going on for about a month
now that means it's beginning to tell
one of the officials said that around
1,400 tons of Aid has been delivered by
air so far and they're saying that's
beginning to have an impact but the
bottom line is it's not enough it's a
very expensive way of delivering Aid uh
it's inadequate it's a symbol of the
failure to get Aid in by other
means but as everybody on this aircraft
will tell you it's probably better than
nothing